Day 47 - Pong

start plan - 13:25
Listening to Foo Fighters by Foo Fighters (wanted to hear their albums, not their shows or collections)

Mission -
Build simple pong game. small canvas rectangle, each side has a ‘paddle’ (small line that can reflect the ball).
A ball bounces around the screen, can be deflected by top and bottom walls and paddles. If ball exits the sides the player that missed the ball loses the round.


HTML:
nothing fancy - a canvas in the middle of the screen (for simplicity I’ll give it a fixed size).
A score board, text strings that will be modified at the end of each round.
Text modal that appears at the beginning - displays how to play.
Text modal that appears at the end - displays winner. 

Css:
nothing special.

JavaScript:
constant size will define the size of all elements in the canvas (default block sizes).
two main objects - Paddle and Ball.

Paddle - has a size and location and id (currently just 1 or 2) and color. 
has methods:
    move - moves the paddle up and down.
    getLocation - returns true if the paddle is in a given certain location.
    draw - draws the paddle.

Ball - 
variable:
    location x and y
    direction dx and dy (try to give random value).
methods:
    move - moves the ball according to dx and dy. method will test and modify dx and dy.
    draw

game-play:
interval:
    move ball
    draw paddle
    draw ball
    testLoss - returns false if game is in play, userID of loser player if game is over.

eventListener - onkeyup - test which player and call move accordingly.

gameOver - update and display Modal.

gameStart - triggered onClick on first modal. declares necessary elements, draws initial canvas and sets the interval.


build order:
1. build layout (html and css)
2. build ball and test movement in canvas (deflected by all walls) - decide if random or fixed direction is better.
3. build and test one paddle
4. add second paddle
5. test a game
6. add gameOver
7. add intro screen.

start coding - 13:45

1. 14:00 - finished layout, didn’t code the modals at all. [Foo Fighters by Foo Fighters still playing]
2. 14:15 - finished ball object. works fine and i like the random direction feature. [Just realized that the music stopped, moving to The Colour and the Shape]
3. 14:30 - finished paddle object. works fine. need to improve build flow - added step 3.5 - add functionality of possible loss to ball.
4. 14:30 - 18:30 break
5. 18:55 - managed to get required functionality but not happy with it.
6. 19:25 - improved the testPaddle functionality and tested a game with two paddles. works but still not perfect.
7. forgot to add scoring - will solve now. this includes resetting the game.

Finished - 20:40!!
total coding - 3 hours 15 min.

Managed to get the testPaddle right - currently functions as textBall (part of the paddle object). It’s not the most elegant but it works - it has ugly repetition, but…

Skipped the intro page and the game over as I eventually decided to let the game go on forever. But the each round displays a winner and updates the score board.
Was fun :)